---
date: '2025-01-29T17:18:07+01:00'
draft: false
title: 'The O Expression.'
---

- $O_1$: a single organism.
- $O_{-1}$: a number of organisms, i.e., a context dependent amount, excluding $O_1$
- <$X$>: substitute X at <$X$>

---

**Qu.**

When an $O$ expresses its internals to other $O$s, these Os can maybe use this information ([theory of mind](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_mind)?). Assuming $O_1$ is part of a set of Os having access to the same information, how does the value of that information degrade with respect to the total number of Os having internalized the same information and the type of information ([information theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_theory)?)?

**Ax.**

$O_1$ shares information $b$ and considers it valuable for other $O$s. What exactly got $O_1$ to express remains a question. Further assume none of $O_{-1}$s has information $b$. In $O_1$'s *experience* resulting in $b$, $O_{-1}$s did not have $b$ (*).

**Ex.**

**Multiple internalize** ($MI$): $O_1$ shares information $b$ with motive $m$. Because of (*), $b$ might not be as useful to $O_{-1}$ as it was to $O_1$. Does this imply that all forms of non-internally-generated information ($NIGI$) is noise? Noise to a predestined future expansion? Is $NIGI$ the shortest path towards the predestined future expansion? If $O_1$ gained something from sharing information $b$, but $b$ becomes less valuable and $O_1$ keeps generating, $O_1$ might be on its shortest path while $O_{-1}$s are not, assuming $O_{-1}$s process $b$ instead of generating. $b$ might become less valuable because $b$ will not result in the same experience for $O_{-1}$ as it did for $O_{1}$.

**Type of information**: <$MI$> Maybe <$MI$> is only relevant in a competitive setting. A setting where there is no room for mutual growth. Is the $O$-environment a competitive setting? Does the type of information depend on the setting? Can awareness and proof of mutual growth capabilities in the $O$-environment restrict the $O$s from participating in competitive behavior (= *intentional disalignment*).
